=head1 MakeMagGrid2D

=over 17

=item MakeMagGrid2D -  

Create 2D cylindrical maps for all three vector components and total field from a set of magnetic potential spherical harmonic coefficients.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 27

=item SUBROUTINE MakeMagGrid2D ( 

RAD, PHI, THETA, TOTAL, CILM, R0, A, F, LMAX, INTERVAL, NLAT, NLONG, NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST )

=back

=over 4

=over 19

=item REAL*8	

S<RAD(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)>, S<PHI(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)>, S<THETA(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)>, S<TOTAL(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)>, S<CILM(2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)>, R0, A, F, INTERVAL

=item INTEGER

LMAX, NLAT, NLONG

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MakeMagGrid2D> will create 2-dimensional cylindrical maps of all three components and total field corresponding to a set of magnetic potential spherical harmonic coefficients. The magnetic potential is given by

V = R0 Sum_{l=1}^LMAX (R0/r)^{l+1} Sum_{m=-l}^l C_{lm} Y_{lm}.

The output grids are in (geocentric) raster format possessing upper-left and lower-right coordinates of (90 N, 0 E) and (90 S, 360 E), respectively. If the optional parameters NORTH, SOUTH, EAST and WEST are specified, then the output grid will possess upper-left and lower-right coordinates of (NORTH, WEST) and (SOUTH, EAST), repsectively. The employed spherical harmonic normalization and Condon-Shortley phase convention is set to use Schmidt semi-normalized 4-pi harmonics that exclude the phase of (-1)^m. The field is calculated on the surface of an ellispoid with semis-major axis A and flattening F. Note that these calculations are strictly exact only when all points on the flattened ellipsoid are greater than the maximum radius of the planet.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 11

=item RAD

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)

A 2D equally spaced map of the radial component of the magnetic field corresponding to the input spherical harmonic coefficients CILM. The  array is in raster format with upper-left and lower-right coordinates of (90 N, 0 E) and (90 S, 360 E), respectively. Latitudinal coordinates are geocentric.

=item PHI

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)

A 2D equally spaced map of the phi (N-S) component of the magnetic field corresponding to the input spherical harmonic coefficients CILM. 

=item THETA

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)

A 2D equally spaced map of the theta (E-W) component of the magnetic field corresponding to the input spherical harmonic coefficients CILM.

=item TOTAL

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(180/INTERVAL+1, 360/INTERVAL+1)

A 2D equally spaced map of the total magnetic field corresponding to the input spherical harmonic coefficients CILM. 

=item CILM 

(input) REAL*8, DIMENSION (2, LMAX+1, LMAX+1)

The real Schmidt semi-normalized spherical harmonic coefficients to be expanded in the space domain. The coefficients C1lm and C2lm refer to the "cosine" (Clm) and "sine" (Slm) coefficients, respectively, with Clm = CILM(1, l+1, m+1) and Slm = CILM(2, l+1, m+1). Alternatively, C1lm and C2lm correspond to the positive and negative order coefficients, respectively.
	
=item R0

(input) REAL*8

The reference radius of the spherical harmonic coefficients CILM.

=item A

(input) REAL*8 

The semi-major axis of the ellipsoid used in evaluating the spherical harmonic coefficients in the space domain.

=item F

(input) REAL*8

The flattening of the ellipsoid used in evaluating the spherical harmonic coefficients in the space domain.

=item LMAX

(input) INTEGER

The maximum spherical harmonic degree of the coefficients CILM.

=item INTERVAL

(input) REAL*8

The latitudinal and longitudinal spacing of the output grids RAD, PHI, THETA and TOTAL.
	
=item NLAT

(output) INTEGER

The number of latitudinal samples. Both 90 N and 90 S are included.

=item NLONG

(output) INTEGER

The number of longitudinal samples. Both 0 and 360 E are included.

=item NORTH

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The maximum latitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is 90 degrees.

=item SOUTH

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The minimum latitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is -90 degrees.

=item EAST

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The maximum longitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is 360 degrees.

=item WEST

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

The minimum longitude of the output raster grid, in degrees. The default is 0 degrees.
	
=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://www.ipgp.jussieu.fr/~wieczor/SHTOOLS/SHTOOLS.html>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2005-2007 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.