=head1 MakeCircleCoord

=over 19

=item MakeCircleCoord -  

Compute coordinates of a circle placed at a given latitude and longitude.

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over 29

=item SUBROUTINE MakeCircleCoord ( 

COORD, LAT, LON, THETA0, CINTERVAL, CNUM ) 

=back

=over 4

=over 18

=item REAL*8	

COORD(360/CINTERVAL, 2), LAT, LON, THETA0

=item REAL*8, OPTIONAL

CINTERVAL

=item INTEGER, OPTIONAL

CNUM

=back

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

I<MakeCircleCoord> will calculate the (lat, long) coordinates of a circle of angular radius THETA0 placed on a sphere at position (LAT, LON). This is useful for plotting circles on geographic maps.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over 17

=item COORD

(output) REAL*8, DIMENSION(360/CINTERVAL, 2)

The latitude (:,1) and longitude (:,2) coordinates of the circle in DEGREES. If not specified, CINTERVAL is assumed to 1.
	
=item LAT

(input) REAL*8

The latitude of the center of the circle in DEGREES.

=item LON

(input) REAL*8

The longitude of the center of the circle in DEGREES.

=item THETA0

(input) REAL*8

The angular radius of the circle in DEGREES.

=item CINTERVAL

(input) REAL*8, OPTIONAL

Angular spacing in DEGREES of the output latitude and longitude points. If not present, the default is 1.

=item CNUM

(output) INTEGER, OPTIONAL

Number of elements in the output arrays.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

makeellipsecoord(1)

L<http://www.ipgp.jussieu.fr/~wieczor/SHTOOLS/SHTOOLS.html>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2005-2010 by Mark Wieczorek <wieczor@ipgp.fr>.

This is free software; you can distribute and modify it under the terms of the revised BSD license.